README.md, before:

# Awesome phages

A curated list of awesome phage related software and other resources to facilitate the life of phage scientists,
bioinformaticians and enthusiasts.


## How to contribute

If you want to add a link, please try to follow these soft rules:

- Position your resource in alphabetical order.
- Add section if needed.
- Add section title to Table of contents.
- Search previous suggestions before making a new one, as yours may be a duplicate.
- Add your links using another entry as inspiration
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- Make sure your text editor is set to remove trailing whitespace.
- Send a Pull Request.
- Add short description in your Pull Request of why the project/resource/tool is awesome.

## Table of Contents

- [Annotation](#annotation)
  - [Genome prediction](#genome-prediction) 
  - [Host prediction](#host-prediction)
  - [Prophage prediction](#prophage-prediction)
  - [Gene prediction](#gene-prediction)
- [Web tools](#web-tools)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

## Annotation

### Genome prediction

- **[Seeker](https://github.com/gussow/seeker)** - Seeker is a python library for discriminating between bacterial and
phage genomes. Seeker is based on an LSTM deep-learning models and does not rely on a reference genome, genomic
alignment or any direct genome comparison.
[ [web](http://seeker.pythonanywhere.com/predict/) ]
- **[VIRify](https://github.com/EBI-Metagenomics/emg-viral-pipeline)** - VIRify: detection of phages and eukaryotic
viruses from metagenomic and metatranscriptomic assemblies.

### Host prediction

- **[phirbo](https://github.com/aziele/phirbo)** - A tool to predict prokaryotic hosts for phage (meta)genomic
sequences. The tool uses information on sequence similarity between phage and bacteria genomes as well as sequence
relatedness among bacteria.

### Prophage prediction

- **[DBSCAN-SWA](https://github.com/HIT-ImmunologyLab/DBSCAN-SWA)** - an integrated tool for rapid prophage detection
and annotation.
- **[hafeZ](https://github.com/Chrisjrt/hafeZ)** - A tool for identifying inducible prophage elements through read
mapping.
- **[Phigaro](https://github.com/bobeobibo/phigaro)** - Phigaro is a standalone command-line application that is able
to detect prophage regions taking raw genome and metagenome assemblies as an input.
- **[PhageBoost](https://github.com/ku-cbd/PhageBoost)** - Rapid discovery of novel prophages using biological feature
engineering and machine learning.
- **[PhiSpy](https://github.com/linsalrob/phispy)** - PhiSpy identifies prophages in Bacterial genomes. Given an
annotated genome it will use several approaches to identify the most likely prophage regions.
- **[Vibrant](https://github.com/AnantharamanLab/VIBRANT)** - VIBRANT is a tool for automated recovery and annotation
of bacterial and archaeal viruses, determination of genome completeness, and characterization of viral community
function from metagenomic assemblies.
- **[VirSorter2](https://github.com/jiarong/VirSorter2)** - VirSorter2 applies a multi-classifier, expert-guided
approach to detect diverse DNA and RNA virus genomes.
- **[WTP](https://github.com/replikation/What_the_Phage)** - What the Phage is a scalable workflow that combines multiple prophage prediction programs, including several of the aforementioned. It starts out of the raw fasta or fastq files and generates an integrated summary of the results obtained from each of the selected tools.

### Gene prediction

- **[multiPhATE2](https://github.com/carolzhou/multiPhATE2)** - MultiPhATE is a command-line program that runs gene
finding and the PhATE annotation code over user-specified phage genomes, then performs gene-by-gene comparisons among
the genomes.
- **[Phanns](https://github.com/Adrian-Cantu/PhANNs)** - PhANNs is a tool to classify any phage ORF as one of 10
structural protein class, or as "others". It uses an ensemble of Artificial Neural Networks.
[ [web](https://edwards.sdsu.edu/phanns) ]
- **[Phanotate](https://github.com/deprekate/PHANOTATE)** - PHANOTATE is a tool to annotate phage genomes. It uses the
assumption that non-coding bases in a phage genome is disadvantageous, and then populates a weighted graph to find the
optimal path through the six frames of the DNA where open reading frames are beneficial paths, while gaps and overlaps
are penalized paths.
- **[Prokka](https://github.com/tseemann/prokka)** - Prokka is not phage specific but is often used to annotate phages.

## Web tools

- **[Patric](https://www.patricbrc.org/)** PATRIC, the Pathosystems Resource Integration Center, provides integrated
data and analysis tools to support biomedical research on bacterial infectious diseases.
- **[Phamerator](https://phamerator.org/)** - Comparative genomics and genome exploration tool for bacteriophages.
[ [source](https://github.com/scresawn/phamerator) ]
- **[Phaster](https://phaster.ca/)** - Rapid identification and annotation of prophage sequences within bacterial
genomes and plasmids.
- **[Prophage Hunter](https://pro-hunter.genomics.cn/index.php/Home)** - Prophage Hunter is a web server tool that employs several criteria to score how likely a prophage is beeing active within a bacterial genome. See also the paper [here](https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/47/W1/W74/5494712).
- **[RAST](https://rast.nmpdr.org/)** - RAST (Rapid Annotation using Subsystem Technology) is a fully-automated service
for annotating complete or nearly complete bacterial and archaeal genomes. It provides high quality genome annotations
for these genomes across the whole phylogenetic tree.

##  Miscellaneous

- **[inphared](https://github.com/RyanCook94/inphared)** - Providing up-to-date phage genome databases, metrics and
useful input files for a number of bioinformatic pipelines.
- **[millardlab](http://millardlab.org/)** - Lab from the University of Leicester focused on bacteriophages with plenty
of resources for phage bioinformatics.
- **[phage.directory](https://phage.directory/)** - Phage Directory curates a database of phage labs, phages, and host
strains to advance research and phage therapy.
- **[phagesdb](https://phagesdb.org/)** - The Actinobacteriophage database, more commonly known as PhagesDB, is a
database-backed website that gathers and shares information related to the discovery, characterization and genomics of
viruses that prefer to infect Actinobacterial hosts
- **[PHAGES2050](https://github.com/ptynecki/PHAGES2050)** - a comprehensive AI-based Framework for Phage Research & Therapy
- **[phage.ai](https://phage.ai/)** - PhageAI is an AI-driven software platform using advanced Machine Learning and
Natural Language Processing techniques for deeper understanding of the bacteriophages genomics.
- **[seaphages](https://seaphages.org/)** - SEA-PHAGES is a two-semester, discovery-based undergraduate research course
that begins with simple digging in the soil to find new viruses, but progresses through a variety of microbiology
techniques and eventually to complex genome annotation and bioinformatic analyses.


## Kwnologe base

- **[Viral taxonomy](https://talk.ictvonline.org/ictv-reports/ictv_online_report/)**

Commit message:

Adding bacteriophage.news (#5)
Adding bacteriophage.news to "Miscellaneous" section.

README.md, after:

# Awesome phages

A curated list of awesome phage related software and other resources to facilitate the life of phage scientists,
bioinformaticians and enthusiasts.


## How to contribute

If you want to add a link, please try to follow these soft rules:

- Position your resource in alphabetical order.
- Add section if needed.
- Add section title to Table of contents.
- Search previous suggestions before making a new one, as yours may be a duplicate.
- Add your links using another entry as inspiration
- Check your spelling and grammar.
- Make sure your text editor is set to remove trailing whitespace.
- Send a Pull Request.
- Add short description in your Pull Request of why the project/resource/tool is awesome.

## Table of Contents

- [Annotation](#annotation)
  - [Genome prediction](#genome-prediction) 
  - [Host prediction](#host-prediction)
  - [Prophage prediction](#prophage-prediction)
  - [Gene prediction](#gene-prediction)
- [Web tools](#web-tools)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

## Annotation

### Genome prediction

- **[Seeker](https://github.com/gussow/seeker)** - Seeker is a python library for discriminating between bacterial and
phage genomes. Seeker is based on an LSTM deep-learning models and does not rely on a reference genome, genomic
alignment or any direct genome comparison.
[ [web](http://seeker.pythonanywhere.com/predict/) ]
- **[VIRify](https://github.com/EBI-Metagenomics/emg-viral-pipeline)** - VIRify: detection of phages and eukaryotic
viruses from metagenomic and metatranscriptomic assemblies.

### Host prediction

- **[phirbo](https://github.com/aziele/phirbo)** - A tool to predict prokaryotic hosts for phage (meta)genomic
sequences. The tool uses information on sequence similarity between phage and bacteria genomes as well as sequence
relatedness among bacteria.

### Prophage prediction

- **[DBSCAN-SWA](https://github.com/HIT-ImmunologyLab/DBSCAN-SWA)** - an integrated tool for rapid prophage detection
and annotation.
- **[hafeZ](https://github.com/Chrisjrt/hafeZ)** - A tool for identifying inducible prophage elements through read
mapping.
- **[Phigaro](https://github.com/bobeobibo/phigaro)** - Phigaro is a standalone command-line application that is able
to detect prophage regions taking raw genome and metagenome assemblies as an input.
- **[PhageBoost](https://github.com/ku-cbd/PhageBoost)** - Rapid discovery of novel prophages using biological feature
engineering and machine learning.
- **[PhiSpy](https://github.com/linsalrob/phispy)** - PhiSpy identifies prophages in Bacterial genomes. Given an
annotated genome it will use several approaches to identify the most likely prophage regions.
- **[Vibrant](https://github.com/AnantharamanLab/VIBRANT)** - VIBRANT is a tool for automated recovery and annotation
of bacterial and archaeal viruses, determination of genome completeness, and characterization of viral community
function from metagenomic assemblies.
- **[VirSorter2](https://github.com/jiarong/VirSorter2)** - VirSorter2 applies a multi-classifier, expert-guided
approach to detect diverse DNA and RNA virus genomes.
- **[WTP](https://github.com/replikation/What_the_Phage)** - What the Phage is a scalable workflow that combines multiple prophage prediction programs, including several of the aforementioned. It starts out of the raw fasta or fastq files and generates an integrated summary of the results obtained from each of the selected tools.

### Gene prediction

- **[multiPhATE2](https://github.com/carolzhou/multiPhATE2)** - MultiPhATE is a command-line program that runs gene
finding and the PhATE annotation code over user-specified phage genomes, then performs gene-by-gene comparisons among
the genomes.
- **[Phanns](https://github.com/Adrian-Cantu/PhANNs)** - PhANNs is a tool to classify any phage ORF as one of 10
structural protein class, or as "others". It uses an ensemble of Artificial Neural Networks.
[ [web](https://edwards.sdsu.edu/phanns) ]
- **[Phanotate](https://github.com/deprekate/PHANOTATE)** - PHANOTATE is a tool to annotate phage genomes. It uses the
assumption that non-coding bases in a phage genome is disadvantageous, and then populates a weighted graph to find the
optimal path through the six frames of the DNA where open reading frames are beneficial paths, while gaps and overlaps
are penalized paths.
- **[Prokka](https://github.com/tseemann/prokka)** - Prokka is not phage specific but is often used to annotate phages.

## Web tools

- **[Patric](https://www.patricbrc.org/)** PATRIC, the Pathosystems Resource Integration Center, provides integrated
data and analysis tools to support biomedical research on bacterial infectious diseases.
- **[Phamerator](https://phamerator.org/)** - Comparative genomics and genome exploration tool for bacteriophages.
[ [source](https://github.com/scresawn/phamerator) ]
- **[Phaster](https://phaster.ca/)** - Rapid identification and annotation of prophage sequences within bacterial
genomes and plasmids.
- **[Prophage Hunter](https://pro-hunter.genomics.cn/index.php/Home)** - Prophage Hunter is a web server tool that employs several criteria to score how likely a prophage is beeing active within a bacterial genome. See also the paper [here](https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/47/W1/W74/5494712).
- **[RAST](https://rast.nmpdr.org/)** - RAST (Rapid Annotation using Subsystem Technology) is a fully-automated service
for annotating complete or nearly complete bacterial and archaeal genomes. It provides high quality genome annotations
for these genomes across the whole phylogenetic tree.

##  Miscellaneous

- **[bacteriophage.news](https://www.bacteriophage.news/)** - Bacteriophage.news is a virtual space that provides
general news, research articles & patient stories on phage therapy.
- **[inphared](https://github.com/RyanCook94/inphared)** - Providing up-to-date phage genome databases, metrics and
useful input files for a number of bioinformatic pipelines.
- **[millardlab](http://millardlab.org/)** - Lab from the University of Leicester focused on bacteriophages with plenty
of resources for phage bioinformatics.
- **[phage.directory](https://phage.directory/)** - Phage Directory curates a database of phage labs, phages, and host
strains to advance research and phage therapy.
- **[phagesdb](https://phagesdb.org/)** - The Actinobacteriophage database, more commonly known as PhagesDB, is a
database-backed website that gathers and shares information related to the discovery, characterization and genomics of
viruses that prefer to infect Actinobacterial hosts
- **[PHAGES2050](https://github.com/ptynecki/PHAGES2050)** - a comprehensive AI-based Framework for Phage Research & Therapy
- **[phage.ai](https://phage.ai/)** - PhageAI is an AI-driven software platform using advanced Machine Learning and
Natural Language Processing techniques for deeper understanding of the bacteriophages genomics.
- **[seaphages](https://seaphages.org/)** - SEA-PHAGES is a two-semester, discovery-based undergraduate research course
that begins with simple digging in the soil to find new viruses, but progresses through a variety of microbiology
techniques and eventually to complex genome annotation and bioinformatic analyses.


## Kwnologe base

- **[Viral taxonomy](https://talk.ictvonline.org/ictv-reports/ictv_online_report/)**
